docs/pages/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Home
---

import { Cards, Card } from 'nextra/components'
import { AppIcon, PagesIcon } from '../components/icons'

<p align="center">
  <img alt="" height="100px" src="/logo-black.png" />
  <br />
  <span>Type-safe internationalization (i18n) for Next.js</span>
</p>

## Features

- **100% Type-safe**: Locales in TS or JSON, type-safe `t()` & `scopedT()`, type-safe params, type-safe plurals, type-safe `changeLocale()`...
- **Small**: No dependencies, lazy-loaded
- **Simple**: No Webpack configuration, no CLI, no code generation, just pure TypeScript
- **SSR/SSG/CSR**: Load only the required locale, client-side and server-side
- <strong style={{ display: 'inline-flex', gap: '8px', verticalAlign: 'top' }}><AppIcon /> App or <PagesIcon /> Pages Router</strong>: With support for React Server Components

Try it live on CodeSandbox:

[![Open with CodeSandbox](https://assets.codesandbox.io/github/button-edit-lime.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/jovial-paper-skkprk?file=%2Fapp%2F%5Blocale%5D%2Fpage.tsx%3A1%2C1)

## Documentation

<Cards>
  <Card title="Browse documentation" href="/docs" />
</Cards>


## Sponsors

![Sponsors](../../assets/sponsors.svg)

Commit message:

feat(next-international): Static Rendering for App Router (#151)

docs/pages/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Home
---

import { Cards, Card } from 'nextra/components'
import { AppIcon, PagesIcon } from '../components/icons'

<p align="center">
  <img alt="" height="100px" src="/logo-black.png" />
  <br />
  <span>Type-safe internationalization (i18n) for Next.js</span>
</p>

## Features

- **100% Type-safe**: Locales in TS or JSON, type-safe `t()` & `scopedT()`, type-safe params, type-safe plurals, type-safe `changeLocale()`...
- **Small**: No dependencies, lazy-loaded
- **Simple**: No Webpack configuration, no CLI, no code generation, just pure TypeScript
- **Server and Client, Static Rendering**: Lazy-load server and client-side, support for Static Rendering
- <strong style={{ display: 'inline-flex', gap: '8px', verticalAlign: 'top' }}><AppIcon /> App or <PagesIcon /> Pages Router</strong>: With support for React Server Components

Try it live on CodeSandbox:

[![Open with CodeSandbox](https://assets.codesandbox.io/github/button-edit-lime.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/jovial-paper-skkprk?file=%2Fapp%2F%5Blocale%5D%2Fpage.tsx%3A1%2C1)

## Documentation

<Cards>
  <Card title="Browse documentation" href="/docs" />
</Cards>


## Sponsors

![Sponsors](../../assets/sponsors.svg)
