docs/pages/docs/app-setup.mdx, before:

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Setup

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  Make sure you've followed the [Get Started](/docs) documentation before continuing!
</Callout>

<Steps>

### Create locale files

Create `locales/client.ts` and `locales/server.ts` with your locales:

```ts
// locales/client.ts
import { createI18nClient } from 'next-international/client'

export const { useI18n, useScopedI18n, I18nProviderClient } = createI18nClient({
  en: () => import('./en'),
  fr: () => import('./fr')
})

// locales/server.ts
import { createI18nServer } from 'next-international/server'

export const { getI18n, getScopedI18n, getStaticParams } = createI18nServer({
  en: () => import('./en'),
  fr: () => import('./fr')
})
```

Each locale file should export a default object (don't forget `as const`):

```ts
// locales/en.ts
export default {
  'hello': 'Hello',
  'hello.world': 'Hello world!',
  'welcome': 'Hello {name}!'
} as const
```

### Move your existing files

Move all your routes inside an `app/[locale]/` folder. For Client Components, wrap the lowest parts of your app with `I18nProviderClient` inside a layout:

```tsx
// app/[locale]/client/layout.tsx
import { ReactElement } from 'react'
import { I18nProviderClient } from '../../locales/client'

export default function SubLayout({
  children,
  params
}: {
  children: ReactElement
  params: { locale: string }
}) {
  return (
    <I18nProviderClient locale={params.locale}>
      {children}
    </I18nProviderClient>
  )
}
```

You can also provide a `fallback` component prop to show while waiting for the locale to load, and a `fallbackLocale` prop that will be used if a key has not been translated.

### Setup SSG (WIP)

If you want to support SSG with `output: export`, add `getStaticParams` to your pages:

```ts
// app/[locale]/page.tsx
import { ..., getStaticParams } from '../../locales/server'

export function generateStaticParams() {
  return getStaticParams()
}
```

### Setup middleware

Add a `middleware.ts` file at the root of your app, that will redirect the user to the right locale. You can also [rewrite the URL to hide the locale](#rewrite-the-url-to-hide-the-locale):

```ts
// middleware.ts
import { createI18nMiddleware } from 'next-international/middleware'
import { NextRequest } from 'next/server'

const I18nMiddleware = createI18nMiddleware(
  locales: ['en', 'fr'],
  defaultLocale: 'fr'
)

export function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return I18nMiddleware(request)
}

export const config = {
  matcher: ['/((?!api|static|.*\\..*|_next|favicon.ico|robots.txt).*)']
}
```

### Translate

Use `useI18n` and `useScopedI18n()` / `getI18n` and `getScopedI18n()` inside your components:

```tsx
// Client Component
'use client'
import { useI18n, useScopedI18n } from '../../locales/client'

export default function Page() {
  const t = useI18n()
  const scopedT = useScopedI18n('hello')

  return (
    <div>
      <p>{t('hello')}</p>

      {/* Both are equivalent: */}
      <p>{t('hello.world')}</p>
      <p>{scopedT('world')}</p>

      <p>{t('welcome', { name: 'John' })}</p>
      <p>{t('welcome', { name: <strong>John</strong> })}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

// Server Component
import { getI18n, getScopedI18n } from '../../locales/server'

export default async function Page() {
  const t = await getI18n()
  const scopedT = await getScopedI18n('hello')

  return (
    <div>
      <p>{t('hello')}</p>

      {/* Both are equivalent: */}
      <p>{t('hello.world')}</p>
      <p>{scopedT('world')}</p>

      <p>{t('welcome', { name: 'John' })}</p>
      <p>{t('welcome', { name: <strong>John</strong> })}</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</Steps>

Commit message:

docs: add static rendering section (#131)

docs/pages/docs/app-setup.mdx, after:

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components'

# Setup

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  Make sure you've followed the [Get Started](/docs) documentation before continuing!
</Callout>

<Steps>

### Create locale files

Create `locales/client.ts` and `locales/server.ts` with your locales:

```ts
// locales/client.ts
import { createI18nClient } from 'next-international/client'

export const { useI18n, useScopedI18n, I18nProviderClient } = createI18nClient({
  en: () => import('./en'),
  fr: () => import('./fr')
})

// locales/server.ts
import { createI18nServer } from 'next-international/server'

export const { getI18n, getScopedI18n, getStaticParams } = createI18nServer({
  en: () => import('./en'),
  fr: () => import('./fr')
})
```

Each locale file should export a default object (don't forget `as const`):

```ts
// locales/en.ts
export default {
  'hello': 'Hello',
  'hello.world': 'Hello world!',
  'welcome': 'Hello {name}!'
} as const
```

### Move your existing files

Move all your routes inside an `app/[locale]/` folder. For Client Components, wrap the lowest parts of your app with `I18nProviderClient` inside a layout:

```tsx
// app/[locale]/client/layout.tsx
import { ReactElement } from 'react'
import { I18nProviderClient } from '../../locales/client'

export default function SubLayout({
  children,
  params
}: {
  children: ReactElement
  params: { locale: string }
}) {
  return (
    <I18nProviderClient locale={params.locale}>
      {children}
    </I18nProviderClient>
  )
}
```

You can also provide a `fallback` component prop to show while waiting for the locale to load, and a `fallbackLocale` prop that will be used if a key has not been translated.

### Setup Static Rendering (WIP)

If you want to support Static Rendering with `output: 'export'` inside `next.config.js`, add `getStaticParams` to your pages:

```ts
// app/[locale]/page.tsx
import { ..., getStaticParams } from '../../locales/server'

export function generateStaticParams() {
  return getStaticParams()
}
```

### Setup middleware

Add a `middleware.ts` file at the root of your app, that will redirect the user to the right locale. You can also [rewrite the URL to hide the locale](#rewrite-the-url-to-hide-the-locale):

```ts
// middleware.ts
import { createI18nMiddleware } from 'next-international/middleware'
import { NextRequest } from 'next/server'

const I18nMiddleware = createI18nMiddleware(
  locales: ['en', 'fr'],
  defaultLocale: 'fr'
)

export function middleware(request: NextRequest) {
  return I18nMiddleware(request)
}

export const config = {
  matcher: ['/((?!api|static|.*\\..*|_next|favicon.ico|robots.txt).*)']
}
```

### Translate

Use `useI18n` and `useScopedI18n()` / `getI18n` and `getScopedI18n()` inside your components:

```tsx
// Client Component
'use client'
import { useI18n, useScopedI18n } from '../../locales/client'

export default function Page() {
  const t = useI18n()
  const scopedT = useScopedI18n('hello')

  return (
    <div>
      <p>{t('hello')}</p>

      {/* Both are equivalent: */}
      <p>{t('hello.world')}</p>
      <p>{scopedT('world')}</p>

      <p>{t('welcome', { name: 'John' })}</p>
      <p>{t('welcome', { name: <strong>John</strong> })}</p>
    </div>
  )
}

// Server Component
import { getI18n, getScopedI18n } from '../../locales/server'

export default async function Page() {
  const t = await getI18n()
  const scopedT = await getScopedI18n('hello')

  return (
    <div>
      <p>{t('hello')}</p>

      {/* Both are equivalent: */}
      <p>{t('hello.world')}</p>
      <p>{scopedT('world')}</p>

      <p>{t('welcome', { name: 'John' })}</p>
      <p>{t('welcome', { name: <strong>John</strong> })}</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</Steps>

## What's next?

Learn how to add [plurals](/docs/app-plurals), use [scoped translations](/docs/app-scoped-translations), setup [Static Rendering](/docs/app-static-rendering), and tweak the [middleware configuration](/docs/app-middleware-configuration).
